# Algorithm Analysis of Quicksort

Quicksort is a popular sorting algorithm that has an average case time
complexity of O(n log n). It works by selecting a pivot element from the array
and partitioning the other elements into two sub-arrays, according to whether
they are less than or greater than the pivot. The sub-arrays are then sorted
recursively.

## Performance

The time complexity of Quicksort is determined by the number of comparisons made
between elements in the array. In the best case, the partitioning algorithm
produces two sub-arrays of equal size, and the pivot is the median of the array.
In this case, the time complexity is O(n log n). However, in the worst case, the
partitioning algorithm produces one sub-array of size n-1 and one sub-array of
size 1, resulting in a time complexity of O(n^2). The worst case occurs when the
pivot is either the smallest or largest element in the array.

In practice, Quicksort is very efficient and is often faster than other popular
sorting algorithms such as Merge Sort and Heap Sort. The reason for this is that
Quicksort is an in-place algorithm and has good cache locality, which means that
it is well-suited to modern computer architectures.

## Implementation

Quicksort can be implemented in a variety of programming languages, and there
are many libraries and modules available that provide Quicksort functionality.
In this notebook, we use the numpy library to implement Quicksort.

## Analysis

To analyze the performance of Quicksort, we can compare the execution time of
the algorithm with arrays of varying sizes. We can measure the execution time
using the time module in Python.

We generate arrays of sizes ranging from 100 to 100,000 and sort them using
Quicksort. We then measure the execution time and plot the results using the
matplotlib library.

The results show that the execution time of Quicksort increases with the size of
the array. However, the increase in execution time is not linear and is much
slower than O(n^2). This demonstrates the efficiency of Quicksort and its
suitability for sorting large datasets.

## Conclusion

Quicksort is a fast and efficient sorting algorithm with an average time
complexity of O(n log n). It is well-suited to modern computer architectures and
can handle large datasets with ease. By analyzing the performance of Quicksort
using arrays of varying sizes, we can see that it is a highly scalable algorithm
that is suitable for a wide range of applications.
